Configuring-File-Adapters.md, before:

# Configuring File Adapters

Parse Server allows developers to choose from several options when hosting files:

* `GridStoreAdapter`, which is backed by MongoDB;
* `S3Adapter`, which is backed by [Amazon S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/); or
* `GCSAdapter`, which is backed by [Google Cloud Storage](https://cloud.google.com/storage/)

`GridStoreAdapter` is used by default and requires no setup, but if you're interested in using S3 or Google Cloud Storage, additional configuration information is available below.

## Configuring `S3Adapter`

If you'd like to use Amazon S3, follow these instructions to configure Parse Server to use `S3Adapter`.

### Set up your bucket and permissions

First you will create a bucket in S3 to hold these files.

1. Log into your [AWS account](https://console.aws.amazon.com/) or create a new one.
2. Head to the S3 service and choose **Create Bucket**
3. Fill out a unique **Bucket Name** and click **Create**. The bucket name should not contain any period '.' for `directAccess` to work. All other defaults are OK.
4. Now head to the Identity and Access Management (IAM) service.
5. Click the **Users** tab, then **Create New User**.
6. Fill out at least one user name and make sure **Generate an access key for each user** is selected before clicking **Create**.
7. Make sure to **Download Credentials** on the next screen.
8. Now select the **Policies** tab, then **Create Policy**.
9. Select **Create Your Own Policy**, fill out a **Policy Name**.
10. Copy the following config in **Policy Document**, changing **BUCKET_NAME** for the name of the bucket you created earlier. (note: this is a little more permissive than Parse Server needs, but it works for now)

    ```json
    {
        "Version": "2012-10-17",
        "Statement": [
            {
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Action": [
                    "s3:*"
                ],
                "Resource": [
                    "arn:aws:s3:::BUCKET_NAME/*"
                ]
            }
         ]
     }
    ```
11. Make sure to **Validate Policy** first, then click **Create Policy**.
12. Go back to the **Users** tab and select the user you created earlier.
13. In Permissions, select **Attach Policy** and find the policy we just created to attach it.

### Configuration options

Writing to your Amazon S3 bucket from Parse Server is as simple as configuring and using the S3 files adapter.

#### Using environment variables

If you're running a standalone Parse Server, you can use the following environment variables to configure the S3 adapter:

| Variable Name | Description | Notes |
| ------------- | ----------- | ----- |
| PARSE_SERVER_FILES_ADAPTER  | Set this variable to './Files/S3Adapter.js'. | Required |
| S3_ACCESS_KEY               | The AWS access key for a user that has the required permissions. | Required |
| S3_SECRET_KEY               | The AWS secret key for the user. | Required |
| S3_BUCKET                   | The name of your S3 bucket. Needs to be globally unique in all of S3. | Required |
| S3_REGION                   | The AWS region to connect to. | Optional. Default: 'us-east-1' |
| S3_BUCKET_PREFIX            | Create all the files with the specified prefix added to the filename. Can be used to put all the files for an app in a folder with 'folder/'. | Optional. |
| S3_DIRECT_ACCESS            | Whether reads are going directly to S3 or proxied through your Parse Server. | Optional. Default: false |

#### Passing as options

If you're using Node.js/Express:

```javascript
...
var S3Adapter = require('parse-server').S3Adapter;

var api = new ParseServer({
  databaseURI: databaseUri || 'mongodb://localhost:27017/dev',
  appId: process.env.APP_ID || 'APPLICATION_ID',
  masterKey: process.env.MASTER_KEY || 'MASTER_KEY',
  ...
  filesAdapter: new S3Adapter(
    "S3_ACCESS_KEY",
    "S3_SECRET_KEY",
    "S3_BUCKET",
    {directAccess: true}
  ),
  ...
});
```

Don't forget to change **S3_ACCESS_KEY**, **S3_SECRET_KEY** and **S3_BUCKET** to their correct value.

##### S3Adapter constructor options

```js
new S3Adapter(accessKey, secretKey, bucket, options)
```

| Parameter | Description | Notes |
| --------- | ----------- | ----- |
| accessKey    | The AWS access key for a user that has the required permissions | Required. |
| secretKey    | The AWS secret key for the user | Required. |
| bucket       | The name of your S3 bucket. | Required. |
| options      | JavaScript object (map) that can contain: | |
| region       | Key in `options`. Set the AWS region to connect to. | Optional. Default: 'us-east-1' |
| bucketPrefix | Key in `options`. Set to create all the files with the specified prefix added to the filename. Can be used to put all the files for an app in a folder with 'folder/'. | Optional. Default: '' |
| directAccess | Key in `options`. Controls whether reads are going directly to S3 or proxied through your Parse Server. | Optional. Default: false |


## Configuring `GCSAdapter`

Unlike the S3 adapter, you must create a new Cloud Storage bucket, as this is not created automatically. See the Google Cloud guide on [Authentication](https://googlecloudplatform.github.io/gcloud-node/#/docs/master/guides/authentication) for more details.

### Configuration options

Writing to your Google Cloud Storage bucket from Parse Server is as simple as configuring and using the GCS files adapter.

#### Using environment variables

You can use Google Cloud Storage to host your static files by setting the following environment variables:

| Variable Name | Description | Notes |
| ------------- | ----------- | ----- |
| PARSE_SERVER_FILES_ADAPTER  | Set this variable to './Files/GCSAdapter.js'. | Required. |
| GCP_PROJECT_ID              | The project ID from the Google Developer's Console. | Required. |
| GCP_KEYFILE_PATH            | Full path to the a .json, .pem, or .p12 key downloaded from the Google Developers Console. | Required. |
| GCS_BUCKET                  | The name of your GCS bucket. | Required. |
| GCS_BUCKET_PREFIX           | Create all the files with the specified prefix added to the filename. Can be used to put all the files for an app in a folder with 'folder/'. | Optional. |
| GCS_DIRECT_ACCESS           | Whether reads are going directly to GCS or proxied through your Parse Server. | Optional. Default: false |

#### Passing as options

If you're using Node.js/Express:

```javascript
...
var GCSAdapter = require('parse-server').GCSAdapter;

var api = new ParseServer({
  databaseURI: databaseUri || 'mongodb://localhost:27017/dev',
  appId: process.env.APP_ID || 'APPLICATION_ID',
  masterKey: process.env.MASTER_KEY || 'MASTER_KEY',
  ...
  filesAdapter: new GCSAdapter(
    "GCP_PROJECT_ID",
    "GCP_KEYFILE_PATH",
    "GCS_BUCKET",
    {directAccess: true}
  ),
  ...
});
```

##### GCSAdapter constructor options

```js
new GCSAdapter(projectId, keyfilePath, bucket, options)
```

| Parameter | Description | Notes |
| --------- | ----------- | ----- |
| projectId    | The project ID from the Google Developer's Console. | Required. |
| keyfilePath  | Full path to the a .json, .pem, or .p12 key downloaded from the Google Developers Console. | Required. |
| bucket       | The name of your GCS bucket. | Required. |
| options      | JavaScript object (map) that can contain: | |
| bucketPrefix | Key in `options`. Set to create all the files with the specified prefix added to the filename. Can be used to put all the files for an app in a folder with 'folder/'. | Optional. Default: '' |
| directAccess | Key in `options`. Controls whether reads are going directly to GCS or proxied through your Parse Server. | Optional. Default: false |

Commit message:

Clarify that directAccess means files are publicly accessible.

Configuring-File-Adapters.md, after:

# Configuring File Adapters

Parse Server allows developers to choose from several options when hosting files:

* `GridStoreAdapter`, which is backed by MongoDB;
* `S3Adapter`, which is backed by [Amazon S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/); or
* `GCSAdapter`, which is backed by [Google Cloud Storage](https://cloud.google.com/storage/)

`GridStoreAdapter` is used by default and requires no setup, but if you're interested in using S3 or Google Cloud Storage, additional configuration information is available below.

## Configuring `S3Adapter`

If you'd like to use Amazon S3, follow these instructions to configure Parse Server to use `S3Adapter`.

### Set up your bucket and permissions

First you will create a bucket in S3 to hold these files.

1. Log into your [AWS account](https://console.aws.amazon.com/) or create a new one.
2. Head to the S3 service and choose **Create Bucket**
3. Fill out a unique **Bucket Name** and click **Create**. The bucket name should not contain any period '.' for `directAccess` to work. All other defaults are OK.
4. Now head to the Identity and Access Management (IAM) service.
5. Click the **Users** tab, then **Create New User**.
6. Fill out at least one user name and make sure **Generate an access key for each user** is selected before clicking **Create**.
7. Make sure to **Download Credentials** on the next screen.
8. Now select the **Policies** tab, then **Create Policy**.
9. Select **Create Your Own Policy**, fill out a **Policy Name**.
10. Copy the following config in **Policy Document**, changing **BUCKET_NAME** for the name of the bucket you created earlier. (note: this is a little more permissive than Parse Server needs, but it works for now)

    ```json
    {
        "Version": "2012-10-17",
        "Statement": [
            {
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Action": [
                    "s3:*"
                ],
                "Resource": [
                    "arn:aws:s3:::BUCKET_NAME/*"
                ]
            }
         ]
     }
    ```
11. Make sure to **Validate Policy** first, then click **Create Policy**.
12. Go back to the **Users** tab and select the user you created earlier.
13. In Permissions, select **Attach Policy** and find the policy we just created to attach it.

### Configuration options

Writing to your Amazon S3 bucket from Parse Server is as simple as configuring and using the S3 files adapter.

#### Using environment variables

If you're running a standalone Parse Server, you can use the following environment variables to configure the S3 adapter:

| Variable Name | Description | Notes |
| ------------- | ----------- | ----- |
| PARSE_SERVER_FILES_ADAPTER  | Set this variable to './Files/S3Adapter.js'. | Required |
| S3_ACCESS_KEY               | The AWS access key for a user that has the required permissions. | Required |
| S3_SECRET_KEY               | The AWS secret key for the user. | Required |
| S3_BUCKET                   | The name of your S3 bucket. Needs to be globally unique in all of S3. | Required |
| S3_REGION                   | The AWS region to connect to. | Optional. Default: 'us-east-1' |
| S3_BUCKET_PREFIX            | Create all the files with the specified prefix added to the filename. Can be used to put all the files for an app in a folder with 'folder/'. | Optional. |
| S3_DIRECT_ACCESS            | Whether reads are going directly to S3 or proxied through your Parse Server. If set to true, files will be made publicly accessible, and reads will not be proxied. | Optional. Default: false |

#### Passing as options

If you're using Node.js/Express:

```javascript
...
var S3Adapter = require('parse-server').S3Adapter;

var api = new ParseServer({
  databaseURI: databaseUri || 'mongodb://localhost:27017/dev',
  appId: process.env.APP_ID || 'APPLICATION_ID',
  masterKey: process.env.MASTER_KEY || 'MASTER_KEY',
  ...
  filesAdapter: new S3Adapter(
    "S3_ACCESS_KEY",
    "S3_SECRET_KEY",
    "S3_BUCKET",
    {directAccess: true}
  ),
  ...
});
```

Don't forget to change **S3_ACCESS_KEY**, **S3_SECRET_KEY** and **S3_BUCKET** to their correct value.

##### S3Adapter constructor options

```js
new S3Adapter(accessKey, secretKey, bucket, options)
```

| Parameter | Description | Notes |
| --------- | ----------- | ----- |
| accessKey    | The AWS access key for a user that has the required permissions | Required. |
| secretKey    | The AWS secret key for the user | Required. |
| bucket       | The name of your S3 bucket. | Required. |
| options      | JavaScript object (map) that can contain: | |
| region       | Key in `options`. Set the AWS region to connect to. | Optional. Default: 'us-east-1' |
| bucketPrefix | Key in `options`. Set to create all the files with the specified prefix added to the filename. Can be used to put all the files for an app in a folder with 'folder/'. | Optional. Default: '' |
| directAccess | Key in `options`. Controls whether reads are going directly to S3 or proxied through your Parse Server. If set to true, files will be made publicly accessible, and reads will not be proxied. | Optional. Default: false |


## Configuring `GCSAdapter`

Unlike the S3 adapter, you must create a new Cloud Storage bucket, as this is not created automatically. See the Google Cloud guide on [Authentication](https://googlecloudplatform.github.io/gcloud-node/#/docs/master/guides/authentication) for more details.

### Configuration options

Writing to your Google Cloud Storage bucket from Parse Server is as simple as configuring and using the GCS files adapter.

#### Using environment variables

You can use Google Cloud Storage to host your static files by setting the following environment variables:

| Variable Name | Description | Notes |
| ------------- | ----------- | ----- |
| PARSE_SERVER_FILES_ADAPTER  | Set this variable to './Files/GCSAdapter.js'. | Required. |
| GCP_PROJECT_ID              | The project ID from the Google Developer's Console. | Required. |
| GCP_KEYFILE_PATH            | Full path to the a .json, .pem, or .p12 key downloaded from the Google Developers Console. | Required. |
| GCS_BUCKET                  | The name of your GCS bucket. | Required. |
| GCS_BUCKET_PREFIX           | Create all the files with the specified prefix added to the filename. Can be used to put all the files for an app in a folder with 'folder/'. | Optional. |
| GCS_DIRECT_ACCESS           | Whether reads are going directly to GCS or proxied through your Parse Server. | Optional. Default: false |

#### Passing as options

If you're using Node.js/Express:

```javascript
...
var GCSAdapter = require('parse-server').GCSAdapter;

var api = new ParseServer({
  databaseURI: databaseUri || 'mongodb://localhost:27017/dev',
  appId: process.env.APP_ID || 'APPLICATION_ID',
  masterKey: process.env.MASTER_KEY || 'MASTER_KEY',
  ...
  filesAdapter: new GCSAdapter(
    "GCP_PROJECT_ID",
    "GCP_KEYFILE_PATH",
    "GCS_BUCKET",
    {directAccess: true}
  ),
  ...
});
```

##### GCSAdapter constructor options

```js
new GCSAdapter(projectId, keyfilePath, bucket, options)
```

| Parameter | Description | Notes |
| --------- | ----------- | ----- |
| projectId    | The project ID from the Google Developer's Console. | Required. |
| keyfilePath  | Full path to the a .json, .pem, or .p12 key downloaded from the Google Developers Console. | Required. |
| bucket       | The name of your GCS bucket. | Required. |
| options      | JavaScript object (map) that can contain: | |
| bucketPrefix | Key in `options`. Set to create all the files with the specified prefix added to the filename. Can be used to put all the files for an app in a folder with 'folder/'. | Optional. Default: '' |
| directAccess | Key in `options`. Controls whether reads are going directly to GCS or proxied through your Parse Server. | Optional. Default: false |
