Parse-Server-Guide.md, before:

* [Overview](#overview)
* [Usage](#usage)
* [Database](#database)
  * [MongoDB + RocksDB](/ParsePlatform/parse-server/wiki/MongoRocks)
* [Keys](#keys)
* [Using Parse SDKs with Parse Server](#using-parse-sdks-with-parse-server)
* [Deploying Parse Server](/ParsePlatform/parse-server/wiki/Deploying-Parse-Server)
* [Setting up Push Notifications](/ParsePlatform/parse-server/wiki/Push)
* [Storing files in S3](/ParsePlatform/parse-server/wiki/Storing-Files-in-AWS-S3)

# Overview

**The Parse hosted backend will be fully retired on January 28, 2017. If you are migrating an existing Parse app, please carefully read through this entire guide. You will need to go through the [migration guide](/ParsePlatform/parse-server/wiki/Migrating-an-Existing-Parse-App) or your app will stop working after the retirement date.**

Parse Server is an open source version of the Parse backend that can be deployed to any infrastructure that can run Node.js. You can find the source on the [GitHub repo](/ParsePlatform/parse-server).

* Parse Server is not dependent on the hosted Parse backend.
* Parse Server uses MongoDB directly, and is not dependent on the Parse hosted database.
* You can migrate an existing app to your own infrastructure.
* You can develop and test your app locally using Node.

## Prerequisites

* Node 4.3
* MongoDB version 2.6.X or 3.0.X
* Python 2.x (For Windows users, 2.7.1 is the required version)
* For deployment, an infrastructure provider like Heroku or AWS

## Installation

Start using Parse Server by grabbing the npm module:

```bash
npm install -g parse-server
```

Or, you can specify "parse-server" in your `packages.json` file.

# Usage

Parse Server is meant to be mounted on an [Express](http://expressjs.com/) app. Express is a web framework for Node.js. The fastest way to get started is to clone the [Parse Server repo](/ParsePlatform/parse-server), which at its root contains a sample Express app with the Parse API mounted.

The constructor returns an API object that conforms to an [Express Middleware](http://expressjs.com/en/api.html#app.use). This object provides the REST endpoints for a Parse app. Create an instance like so:

```js
var api = new ParseServer({
  databaseURI: 'mongodb://your.mongo.uri',
  cloud: './cloud/main.js',
  appId: 'myAppId',
  fileKey: 'myFileKey',
  masterKey: 'mySecretMasterKey',
  push: { ... }, // See the Push wiki page
  filesAdapter: ...,
});
```

The parameters are as follows:

* `databaseURI`: Connection string URI for your MongoDB.
* `cloud`: Path to your app’s Cloud Code.
* `appId`: A unique identifier for your app.
* `fileKey`: A key that specifies a prefix used for file storage. For migrated apps, this is necessary to provide access to files already hosted on Parse.
* `masterKey`: A key that overrides all permissions. Keep this secret.
* `clientKey`: The client key for your app. (optional)
* `restAPIKey`: The REST API key for your app. (optional)
* `javascriptKey`: The JavaScript key for your app. (optional)
* `dotNetKey`: The .NET key for your app. (optional)
* `push`: An object containing push configuration. See [Push](/ParsePlatform/parse-server/wiki/Push)
* `filesAdapter`: An object that implements the [FilesAdapter](/ParsePlatform/parse-server/blob/master/src/Adapters/Files/FilesAdapter.js) interface. For example, [the S3 files adapter](/ParsePlatform/parse-server/wiki/Parse-Server-Guide#storing-files-in-s3)
* `oauth`: Configure support for [3rd party authentication](#oauth).

The Parse Server object was built to be passed directly into `app.use`, which will mount the Parse API at a specified path in your Express app:

```js
var express = require('express');
var ParseServer = require('parse-server').ParseServer;

var app = express();
var api = new ParseServer({ ... });

// Serve the Parse API at /parse URL prefix
app.use('/parse', api);

var port = 1337;
app.listen(port, function() {
  console.log('parse-server-example running on port ' + port + '.');
});
```

And with that, you will have a Parse Server running on port 1337, serving the Parse API at `/parse`.

## OAuth

Parse Server supports 3rd party authentication with

* Twitter
* Meetup
* LinkedIn
* Google
* Instagram
* Facebook

Configuration options for these 3rd-party modules is done with the `oauth` option passed to Parse Server:

```
{
  oauth: {
   twitter: {
     consumer_key: "", // REQUIRED
     consumer_secret: "" // REQUIRED
   },
   facebook: {
     appIds: "FACEBOOK APP ID"
   }
  }

}
```

### Custom authentication

It is possible to leverage the OAuth support with any 3rd party authentication that you bring in.

```
{

  oauth: {
   my_custom_auth: {
     module: "PATH_TO_MODULE" // OR object,
     option1: "",
     option2: "",
   }
  }
}
```

On this module, you need to implement and export those two functions `validateAuthData(authData, options) {} ` and `validateAppId(appIds, authData) {}`.

For more information about custom auth please see the examples:

- [Facebook OAuth](https://github.com/ParsePlatform/parse-server/blob/master/src/oauth/facebook.js)
- [Twitter OAuth](https://github.com/ParsePlatform/parse-server/blob/master/src/oauth/twitter.js)
- [Instagram OAuth](https://github.com/ParsePlatform/parse-server/blob/master/src/oauth/instagram.js)

# Database

Parse Server uses [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.org/) as the database for your application. If you have not used MongoDB before, we highly recommend familiarizing yourself with it first before proceeding.

The Mongo requirements for Parse Server are:

* MongoDB version 2.6.X or 3.0.X
* The [failIndexKeyTooLong](https://docs.mongodb.org/manual/reference/parameters/#param.failIndexKeyTooLong) parameter must be set to `false`.
* An SSL connection is recommended (but not required).
* We strongly recommend that your MongoDB servers be hosted in the US-East region for minimal lantecy.

If this is your first time setting up a production MongoDB instance, we recommend using either [mLab](http://www.mLab.com) or [ObjectRocket](https://objectrocket.com/). These are database-as-a-service companies which provide fully managed MongoDB instances, and can help you scale up as needed.

If you are migrating an existing Parse app to a MongoDB instance that isn't backed by WiredTiger or RocksDB, a good rule of thumb is to assume you will need 10X the space you currently are using with Parse.

When using MongoDB with your Parse app, there are some differences with the hosted Parse database:

* You need to manage your indexes yourself. Hosted Parse automatically adds indexes based on the incoming query stream.
* You need to size up your database as your data grows.

If you are planning to run MongoDB on your own infrastructure, we highly recommend using the [RocksDB Storage Engine](/ParsePlatform/parse-server/wiki/MongoRocks).

# Keys

Parse Server does not require the use of client-side keys. This includes the client key, JavaScript key, .NET key, and REST API key. The Application ID is sufficient to secure your app.

However, you have the option to specify any of these four keys upon initialization. Upon doing so, Parse Server will enforce that any clients passing a key matches. The behavior is consistent with hosted Parse.

# Using Parse SDKs with Parse Server

To use a Parse SDK with Parse Server, change the server URL to your Parse API URL (make sure you have the [latest version of the SDKs](https://parse.com/docs/downloads)). For example, if you have Parse Server running locally mounted at /parse:

**iOS / OS X / watchOS / tvOS**

_Swift_
```swift
let configuration = ParseClientConfiguration {
    $0.applicationId = "YOUR_APP_ID"
    $0.clientKey = ""
    $0.server = "http://localhost:1337/parse"
}
Parse.initializeWithConfiguration(configuration)
```

_Objective-C_
```objc
[Parse initializeWithConfiguration:[ParseClientConfiguration configurationWithBlock:^(id<ParseMutableClientConfiguration> configuration) {
   configuration.applicationId = @"YOUR_APP_ID";
   configuration.clientKey = @"";
   configuration.server = @"http://localhost:1337/parse";
}]];
```

**Android**

```java
Parse.initialize(new Parse.Configuration.Builder(myContext)
    .applicationId("YOUR_APP_ID")
    .clientKey(null)
    .server("http://localhost:1337/parse")

    ...

    .build()
);
```

**JavaScript**

```js
Parse.initialize("YOUR_APP_ID");
Parse.serverURL = 'http://localhost:1337/parse'
```

**.NET**

```csharp
ParseClient.initialize(new ParseClient.Configuration {
    ApplicationId = "YOUR_APP_ID",
    Server = "http://localhost:1337/parse"
});
```

**PHP**

```php
ParseClient::initialize('YOUR_APP_ID', 'YOUR_CLIENT_KEY', 'YOUR_MASTER_KEY');
ParseClient::setServerURL('http://localhost:1337/parse');
```

# Deploying Parse Server

* [Deploying to Heroku and mLab](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/deploying-a-parse-server-to-heroku)

# Setting up Push Notifications

* See the [Push Notification guide](/ParsePlatform/parse-server/wiki/Push).
* [PPNS Protocol Specification (for Parse IoT devices)](/ParsePlatform/parse-server/wiki/PPNS-Protocol-Specification)

# Other

* [Storing files in AWS S3](/ParsePlatform/parse-server/wiki/Storing-Files-in-AWS-S3)

Commit message:

Adds instructions to install from source

Parse-Server-Guide.md, after:

* [Overview](#overview)
* [Usage](#usage)
* [Database](#database)
  * [MongoDB + RocksDB](/ParsePlatform/parse-server/wiki/MongoRocks)
* [Keys](#keys)
* [Using Parse SDKs with Parse Server](#using-parse-sdks-with-parse-server)
* [Deploying Parse Server](/ParsePlatform/parse-server/wiki/Deploying-Parse-Server)
* [Setting up Push Notifications](/ParsePlatform/parse-server/wiki/Push)
* [Storing files in S3](/ParsePlatform/parse-server/wiki/Storing-Files-in-AWS-S3)

# Overview

**The Parse hosted backend will be fully retired on January 28, 2017. If you are migrating an existing Parse app, please carefully read through this entire guide. You will need to go through the [migration guide](/ParsePlatform/parse-server/wiki/Migrating-an-Existing-Parse-App) or your app will stop working after the retirement date.**

Parse Server is an open source version of the Parse backend that can be deployed to any infrastructure that can run Node.js. You can find the source on the [GitHub repo](/ParsePlatform/parse-server).

* Parse Server is not dependent on the hosted Parse backend.
* Parse Server uses MongoDB directly, and is not dependent on the Parse hosted database.
* You can migrate an existing app to your own infrastructure.
* You can develop and test your app locally using Node.

## Prerequisites

* Node 4.3
* MongoDB version 2.6.X or 3.0.X
* Python 2.x (For Windows users, 2.7.1 is the required version)
* For deployment, an infrastructure provider like Heroku or AWS

## Installation

Start using Parse Server by grabbing the npm module:

```bash
npm install -g parse-server
```

Or, you can specify "parse-server" in your `packages.json` file.

## Installation from source

If you wish to run on your server the github version of parse server:

If your project is not under version control or not configured to use npm:

```bash
git init
npm init
```

Add the parse-server submodule and link.

```bash
# in your root folder of your project
git submodule add  git@github.com:ParsePlatform/parse-server.git
npm link parse-server ./parse-server
```

### Update to lastest version from source

```bash
cd parse-server
git checkout master
git pull
cd ..
git commit -am 'Updates parse-server to latest version'
```

# Usage

Parse Server is meant to be mounted on an [Express](http://expressjs.com/) app. Express is a web framework for Node.js. The fastest way to get started is to clone the [Parse Server repo](/ParsePlatform/parse-server), which at its root contains a sample Express app with the Parse API mounted.

The constructor returns an API object that conforms to an [Express Middleware](http://expressjs.com/en/api.html#app.use). This object provides the REST endpoints for a Parse app. Create an instance like so:

```js
var api = new ParseServer({
  databaseURI: 'mongodb://your.mongo.uri',
  cloud: './cloud/main.js',
  appId: 'myAppId',
  fileKey: 'myFileKey',
  masterKey: 'mySecretMasterKey',
  push: { ... }, // See the Push wiki page
  filesAdapter: ...,
});
```

The parameters are as follows:

* `databaseURI`: Connection string URI for your MongoDB.
* `cloud`: Path to your app’s Cloud Code.
* `appId`: A unique identifier for your app.
* `fileKey`: A key that specifies a prefix used for file storage. For migrated apps, this is necessary to provide access to files already hosted on Parse.
* `masterKey`: A key that overrides all permissions. Keep this secret.
* `clientKey`: The client key for your app. (optional)
* `restAPIKey`: The REST API key for your app. (optional)
* `javascriptKey`: The JavaScript key for your app. (optional)
* `dotNetKey`: The .NET key for your app. (optional)
* `push`: An object containing push configuration. See [Push](/ParsePlatform/parse-server/wiki/Push)
* `filesAdapter`: An object that implements the [FilesAdapter](/ParsePlatform/parse-server/blob/master/src/Adapters/Files/FilesAdapter.js) interface. For example, [the S3 files adapter](/ParsePlatform/parse-server/wiki/Parse-Server-Guide#storing-files-in-s3)
* `oauth`: Configure support for [3rd party authentication](#oauth).

The Parse Server object was built to be passed directly into `app.use`, which will mount the Parse API at a specified path in your Express app:

```js
var express = require('express');
var ParseServer = require('parse-server').ParseServer;

var app = express();
var api = new ParseServer({ ... });

// Serve the Parse API at /parse URL prefix
app.use('/parse', api);

var port = 1337;
app.listen(port, function() {
  console.log('parse-server-example running on port ' + port + '.');
});
```

And with that, you will have a Parse Server running on port 1337, serving the Parse API at `/parse`.

## OAuth

Parse Server supports 3rd party authentication with

* Twitter
* Meetup
* LinkedIn
* Google
* Instagram
* Facebook

Configuration options for these 3rd-party modules is done with the `oauth` option passed to Parse Server:

```
{
  oauth: {
   twitter: {
     consumer_key: "", // REQUIRED
     consumer_secret: "" // REQUIRED
   },
   facebook: {
     appIds: "FACEBOOK APP ID"
   }
  }

}
```

### Custom authentication

It is possible to leverage the OAuth support with any 3rd party authentication that you bring in.

```
{

  oauth: {
   my_custom_auth: {
     module: "PATH_TO_MODULE" // OR object,
     option1: "",
     option2: "",
   }
  }
}
```

On this module, you need to implement and export those two functions `validateAuthData(authData, options) {} ` and `validateAppId(appIds, authData) {}`.

For more information about custom auth please see the examples:

- [Facebook OAuth](https://github.com/ParsePlatform/parse-server/blob/master/src/oauth/facebook.js)
- [Twitter OAuth](https://github.com/ParsePlatform/parse-server/blob/master/src/oauth/twitter.js)
- [Instagram OAuth](https://github.com/ParsePlatform/parse-server/blob/master/src/oauth/instagram.js)

# Database

Parse Server uses [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.org/) as the database for your application. If you have not used MongoDB before, we highly recommend familiarizing yourself with it first before proceeding.

The Mongo requirements for Parse Server are:

* MongoDB version 2.6.X or 3.0.X
* The [failIndexKeyTooLong](https://docs.mongodb.org/manual/reference/parameters/#param.failIndexKeyTooLong) parameter must be set to `false`.
* An SSL connection is recommended (but not required).
* We strongly recommend that your MongoDB servers be hosted in the US-East region for minimal lantecy.

If this is your first time setting up a production MongoDB instance, we recommend using either [mLab](http://www.mLab.com) or [ObjectRocket](https://objectrocket.com/). These are database-as-a-service companies which provide fully managed MongoDB instances, and can help you scale up as needed.

If you are migrating an existing Parse app to a MongoDB instance that isn't backed by WiredTiger or RocksDB, a good rule of thumb is to assume you will need 10X the space you currently are using with Parse.

When using MongoDB with your Parse app, there are some differences with the hosted Parse database:

* You need to manage your indexes yourself. Hosted Parse automatically adds indexes based on the incoming query stream.
* You need to size up your database as your data grows.

If you are planning to run MongoDB on your own infrastructure, we highly recommend using the [RocksDB Storage Engine](/ParsePlatform/parse-server/wiki/MongoRocks).

# Keys

Parse Server does not require the use of client-side keys. This includes the client key, JavaScript key, .NET key, and REST API key. The Application ID is sufficient to secure your app.

However, you have the option to specify any of these four keys upon initialization. Upon doing so, Parse Server will enforce that any clients passing a key matches. The behavior is consistent with hosted Parse.

# Using Parse SDKs with Parse Server

To use a Parse SDK with Parse Server, change the server URL to your Parse API URL (make sure you have the [latest version of the SDKs](https://parse.com/docs/downloads)). For example, if you have Parse Server running locally mounted at /parse:

**iOS / OS X / watchOS / tvOS**

_Swift_
```swift
let configuration = ParseClientConfiguration {
    $0.applicationId = "YOUR_APP_ID"
    $0.clientKey = ""
    $0.server = "http://localhost:1337/parse"
}
Parse.initializeWithConfiguration(configuration)
```

_Objective-C_
```objc
[Parse initializeWithConfiguration:[ParseClientConfiguration configurationWithBlock:^(id<ParseMutableClientConfiguration> configuration) {
   configuration.applicationId = @"YOUR_APP_ID";
   configuration.clientKey = @"";
   configuration.server = @"http://localhost:1337/parse";
}]];
```

**Android**

```java
Parse.initialize(new Parse.Configuration.Builder(myContext)
    .applicationId("YOUR_APP_ID")
    .clientKey(null)
    .server("http://localhost:1337/parse")

    ...

    .build()
);
```

**JavaScript**

```js
Parse.initialize("YOUR_APP_ID");
Parse.serverURL = 'http://localhost:1337/parse'
```

**.NET**

```csharp
ParseClient.initialize(new ParseClient.Configuration {
    ApplicationId = "YOUR_APP_ID",
    Server = "http://localhost:1337/parse"
});
```

**PHP**

```php
ParseClient::initialize('YOUR_APP_ID', 'YOUR_CLIENT_KEY', 'YOUR_MASTER_KEY');
ParseClient::setServerURL('http://localhost:1337/parse');
```

# Deploying Parse Server

* [Deploying to Heroku and mLab](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/deploying-a-parse-server-to-heroku)

# Setting up Push Notifications

* See the [Push Notification guide](/ParsePlatform/parse-server/wiki/Push).
* [PPNS Protocol Specification (for Parse IoT devices)](/ParsePlatform/parse-server/wiki/PPNS-Protocol-Specification)

# Other

* [Storing files in AWS S3](/ParsePlatform/parse-server/wiki/Storing-Files-in-AWS-S3)
