# Deploying to Heroku and MongoLab

Heroku and MongoLab provide an easy way to deploy Parse Server, especially if you're new to managing your own backend infrastructure.

Here are the steps:

1. Create a repo for your Express app with the Parse Server middleware mounted (you can use our sample project, or start your own).
2. Create a Heroku account (if you don’t have one already) and use the Heroku Toolbelt to log in and prepare a new app in the same directory as your Express app. Take a look at Heroku's [Getting Started with Node.js guide](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/getting-started-with-nodejs#introduction) for more details.
3. Use the MongoLab addon: `heroku addons:create mongolab:sandbox` (or, you can create a Mongo instance yourself, either directly with MongoLab or your own box)
4. Use heroku config and note the URI provided by MongoLab under the var MONGOLAB_URI
5. Copy this URI and set it as a new config variable: heroku config:set `DATABASE_URI=mongodb://...`
6. Deploy it: `git push heroku master`

#Deploying to Pivotal Web Services and MongoLab

PWS and MongoLab and MongoLab provide an easy way to deploy Parse Server, especially if you're new to managing your own backend infrastructure.

1. Create an Pivotal Web Services account if you don't have one already at http://run.pivotal.io and download the CF CLI tool.
2. Log in using the [CF CLI tool](https://console.run.pivotal.io/tools): `cf login -u username -a api.run.pivotal.io`
3. Select the org and space where you would like to deploy.
4. Create a MongoLab service instance: `cf create-service mongolab sandbox my-parse-mongodb`
5. Create your Express app with the Parse Server middleware mounted, or you can use the [sample project](https://github.com/ParsePlatform/parse-server-example).
6. Push your app to PWS, but do not start it yet: 

    ```
    cd ~/workspace/my-parse-server
    cf push my-awesome-parse-server --no start
    ```
    
7. Bind your MongoDB service to your app: `cf bind-service my-awesome-parse-server my-parse-mongodb`
8. Modify your parse server init in your express app like so:

    ```javascript
    var api = new ParseServer({
      databaseURI: JSON.parse(process.env.VCAP_SERVICES).mongolab[0].credentials.uri || 'mongodb://localhost:27017/dev',
      cloud: process.env.CLOUD_CODE_MAIN || __dirname + '/cloud/main.js',
      appId: '<insert parse app id from console here>',
      masterKey: '<insert parse master key here>'
    });
    ```
    
9. Push your changes and start your app! `cf push my-awesome-parse-server`.
