# Usage

Parse Server is meant to be mounted on an [Express](http://expressjs.com/) app. Express is a web framework for Node.js. The fastest way to get started is to clone the [Parse Server repo](https://github.com/ParsePlatform/parse-server), which at its root contains a sample Express app with the Parse API mounted.

The constructor returns an API object that conforms to an [Express Middleware](http://expressjs.com/en/api.html#app.use). This object provides the REST endpoints for a Parse app. Create an instance like so:

```js
var api = new ParseServer({
  databaseURI: 'mongodb://your.mongo.uri',
  cloud: './cloud/main.js',
  appId: 'myAppId',
  fileKey: 'myFileKey',
  masterKey: 'mySecretMasterKey',
  clientKey: 'myClientKey',
  restAPIKey: 'myRESTAPIKey',
  javascriptKey: 'myJavascriptKey',
  dotNetKey: 'myDotNetKey',
});
```

The paramaters are as follows:

* databaseURI: Connection string URI for your MongoDB.
* cloud: Path to your app’s Cloud Code.
* appId: A unique identifier for your app.
* fileKey: A key that specifies a prefix used for file storage. (only necessary for old files in s3 *clarify this*)
* masterKey: A key that overrides all permissions. Keep this secret.
* clientKey: The client key for your app.
* restAPIKey: The REST API key for your app.
* javascriptKey: The JavaScript key for your app.
* dotNetKey: The .NET key for your app.

The Parse Server object was built to be passed directly into `app.use`, which will mount the Parse API at a specified path in your Express app:

```js
var express = require('express');
var ParseServer = require('parse-server').ParseServer;

var app = express();
var api = new ParseServer({ ... });

// Serve the Parse API at /parse URL prefix
app.use('/parse', api);

var port = 1337;
app.listen(port, function() {
  console.log('parse-server-example running on port ' + port + '.');
});
```

And with that, you will have a Parse Server running on port 1337, serving the Parse API at `/parse`.

The easiest way to get started with Parse Server is to use the [sample Express project at the root of the Parse Server repo](https://www.github.com/ParsePlatform/parse-server) which contains everything you need after setting a few parameters.
