# Cloud Code

## What is Cloud Code?

Parse's vision is to let developers build any mobile app without dealing with servers. For complex apps, sometimes you just need a bit of logic that isn't running on a mobile device. Cloud Code makes this possible.

Cloud Code is easy to use because it's built on the same JavaScript SDK that powers thousands of apps. The only difference is that this code runs in the Parse Cloud rather than running on a mobile device. When you update your Cloud Code, it becomes available to all mobile environments instantly. You don't have to wait for a new release of your application. This lets you change app behavior on the fly and add new features faster.

Even if you're only familiar with mobile development, we hope you'll find Cloud Code straightforward and easy to use.

## Getting Started

On the computer you use for development, you will need to install Parse's command line tool. This will let you manage your code in the Parse Cloud. Visit the [Installation section](#command-line-installation) of the [Command Line Tool guide](#command-line) to learn how to install the tool, set up your Cloud Code directory, and [deploy your code](#command-line-a-simple-function).

## Cloud Functions

Let's look at a slightly more complex example where Cloud Code is useful. One reason to do computation in the cloud is so that you don't have to send a huge list of objects down to a device if you only want a little bit of information. For example, let's say you're writing an app that lets people review movies. A single `Review` object could look like:

```json
{
  "movie": "The Matrix",
  "stars": 5,
  "comment": "Too bad they never made any sequels."
}
```

If you wanted to find the average number of stars for The Matrix, you could query for all of the reviews, and average the stars on the device. However, this uses a lot of bandwidth when you only need a single number. With Cloud Code, we can just pass up the name of the movie, and return the average star rating.

Cloud functions accept a JSON parameters dictionary on the `request` object, so we can use that to pass up the movie name. The entire Parse JavaScript SDK is available in the cloud environment, so we can use that to query over `Review` objects. Together, the code to implement `averageStars` looks like:

```js
Parse.Cloud.define("averageStars", function(request, response) {
  var query = new Parse.Query("Review");
  query.equalTo("movie", request.params.movie);
  query.find({
    success: function(results) {
      var sum = 0;
      for (var i = 0; i < results.length; ++i) {
        sum += results[i].get("stars");
      }
      response.success(sum / results.length);
    },
    error: function() {
      response.error("movie lookup failed");
    }
  });
});
```

The only difference between using `averageStars` and `hello` is that we have to provide the parameter that will be accessed in `request.params.movie` when we call the Cloud function. Read on to learn more about how Cloud functions can be called.

Cloud functions can be called from any of the client SDKs, as well as through the REST API. For example, to call the Cloud function named `averageStars` with a parameter named `movie` from an Android app:

```java
HashMap<String, Object> params = new HashMap<String, Object>();
params.put("movie", "The Matrix");
ParseCloud.callFunctionInBackground("averageStars", params, new FunctionCallback<Float>() {
   void done(Float ratings, ParseException e) {
       if (e == null) {
          // ratings is 4.5
       }
   }
});
```

To call the same Cloud function from an iOS app:

```objc
// Objective-C
[PFCloud callFunctionInBackground:@"averageStars"
                   withParameters:@{@"movie": @"The Matrix"}
                            block:^(NSNumber *ratings, NSError *error) {
  if (!error) {
     // ratings is 4.5
  }
}];
```
```swift
// Swift
PFCloud.callFunctionInBackground("averageRatings", withParameters: ["movie":"The Matrix"]) {
  (response: AnyObject?, error: NSError?) -> Void in
  let ratings = response as? Float
  // ratings is 4.5
}
```

This is how you would call the same Cloud function using PHP:

```php
$ratings = ParseCloud::run("averageRatings", ["movie" => "The Matrix"]);
// $ratings is 4.5
```

The following example shows how you can call the "averageRatings" Cloud function from a .NET C# app such as in the case of Windows 10, Unity, and Xamarin applications:

```csharp
IDictionary<string, object> params = new Dictionary<string, object>
{
    { "movie", "The Matrix" }
};
ParseCloud.CallFunctionAsync<IDictionary<string, object>>("averageStars", params).ContinueWith(t => {
  var ratings = t.Result;
  // ratings is 4.5
});
```

You can also call Cloud functions using the REST API:

```bash
curl -X POST \
  -H "X-Parse-Application-Id: ${APPLICATION_ID}" \
  -H "X-Parse-REST-API-Key: ${REST_API_KEY}" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{ "movie": "The Matrix" }' \
  https://api.parse.com/1/functions/averageStars
```

And finally, to call the same function from a JavaScript app:

```js
Parse.Cloud.run('averageStars', { movie: 'The Matrix' }).then(function(ratings) {
  // ratings should be 4.5
});
```

In general, two arguments will be passed into cloud functions:

1.  **`request`** - The request object contains information about the request. The following fields are set:
  1.  **`params`** - The parameters object sent to the function by the client.
  2.  **`user`** - The `Parse.User` that is making the request.  This will not be set if there was no logged-in user.

If the function is successful, the response in the client looks like:

```json
{ "result": 4.8 }
```

If there is an error, the response in the client looks like:

```json
{
  "code": 141,
  "error": "movie lookup failed"
}
```

## beforeSave Triggers

### Implementing validation

Another reason to run code in the cloud is to enforce a particular data format. For example, you might have both an Android and an iOS app, and you want to validate data for each of those. Rather than writing code once for each client environment, you can write it just once with Cloud Code.

Let's take a look at our movie review example. When you're choosing how many stars to give something, you can typically only give 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 stars. You can't give -6 stars or 1337 stars in a review. If we want to reject reviews that are out of bounds, we can do this with the `beforeSave` method:

```js
Parse.Cloud.beforeSave("Review", function(request, response) {
  if (request.object.get("stars") < 1) {
    response.error("you cannot give less than one star");
  } else if (request.object.get("stars") > 5) {
    response.error("you cannot give more than five stars");
  } else {
    response.success();
  }
});
```

If `response.error` is called, the `Review` object will not be saved, and the client will get an error. If `response.success` is called, the object will be saved normally. Your code should call one of these two callbacks.

One useful tip is that even if your mobile app has many different versions, the same version of Cloud Code applies to all of them. Thus, if you launch an application that doesn't correctly check the validity of input data, you can still fix this problem by adding a validation with `beforeSave`.

If you want to use `beforeSave` for a predefined class in the Parse JavaScript SDK (e.g. [Parse.User](/docs/js/api/symbols/Parse.User.html)), you should not pass a String for the first argument. Instead, you should pass the class itself:

```js
Parse.Cloud.beforeSave(Parse.User, function(request, response) {
  if (!request.object.get("email")) {
    response.error("email is required for signup");
  } else {
    response.success();
  }
});
```

### Modifying Objects on Save

In some cases, you don't want to throw out invalid data. You just want to tweak it a bit before saving it. `beforeSave` can handle this case, too. You just call `response.success` on the altered object.

In our movie review example, we might want to ensure that comments aren't too long. A single long comment might be tricky to display. We can use `beforeSave` to truncate the `comment` field to 140 characters:

```js
Parse.Cloud.beforeSave("Review", function(request, response) {
  var comment = request.object.get("comment");
  if (comment.length > 140) {
    // Truncate and add a ...
    request.object.set("comment", comment.substring(0, 137) + "...");
  }
  response.success();
});
```

## afterSave Triggers

In some cases, you may want to perform some action, such as a push, after an object has been saved. You can do this by registering a handler with the `afterSave` method. For example, suppose you want to keep track of the number of comments on a blog post. You can do that by writing a function like this:

```js
Parse.Cloud.afterSave("Comment", function(request) {
  query = new Parse.Query("Post");
  query.get(request.object.get("post").id, {
    success: function(post) {
      post.increment("comments");
      post.save();
    },
    error: function(error) {
      console.error("Got an error " + error.code + " : " + error.message);
    }
  });
});
```

The client will receive a successful response to the save request after the handler terminates, regardless of how it terminates. For instance, the client will receive a successful response even if the handler throws an exception. Any errors that occurred while running the handler can be found in the Cloud Code log.

If you want to use `afterSave` for a predefined class in the Parse JavaScript SDK (e.g. [Parse.User](/docs/js/api/symbols/Parse.User.html)), you should not pass a String for the first argument. Instead, you should pass the class itself.

## beforeDelete Triggers

You can run custom Cloud Code before an object is deleted. You can do this with the `beforeDelete` method. For instance, this can be used to implement a restricted delete policy that is more sophisticated than what can be expressed through  [ACLs](/docs/js/api/symbols/Parse.ACL.html). For example, suppose you have a photo album app, where many photos are associated with each album, and you want to prevent the user from deleting an album if it still has a photo in it. You can do that by writing a function like this:

```js
Parse.Cloud.beforeDelete("Album", function(request, response) {
  query = new Parse.Query("Photo");
  query.equalTo("album", request.object.id);
  query.count({
    success: function(count) {
      if (count > 0) {
        response.error("Can't delete album if it still has photos.");
      } else {
        response.success();
      }
    },
    error: function(error) {
      response.error("Error " + error.code + " : " + error.message + " when getting photo count.");
    }
  });
});
```

If `response.error` is called, the `Album` object will not be deleted, and the client will get an error. If `response.success` is called, the object will be deleted normally. Your code should call one of these two callbacks.

If you want to use `beforeDelete` for a predefined class in the Parse JavaScript SDK (e.g. [Parse.User](/docs/js/api/symbols/Parse.User.html)), you should not pass a String for the first argument. Instead, you should pass the class itself.


## afterDelete Triggers

In some cases, you may want to perform some action, such as a push, after an object has been deleted. You can do this by registering a handler with the `afterDelete` method. For example, suppose that after deleting a blog post, you also want to delete all associated comments. You can do that by writing a function like this:

```js
Parse.Cloud.afterDelete("Post", function(request) {
  query = new Parse.Query("Comment");
  query.equalTo("post", request.object);
  query.find({
    success: function(comments) {
      Parse.Object.destroyAll(comments, {
        success: function() {},
        error: function(error) {
          console.error("Error deleting related comments " + error.code + ": " + error.message);
        }
      });
    },
    error: function(error) {
      console.error("Error finding related comments " + error.code + ": " + error.message);
    }
  });
});
```

The `afterDelete` handler can access the object that was deleted through `request.object`. This object is fully fetched, but cannot be refetched or resaved.

The client will receive a successful response to the delete request after the handler terminates, regardless of how it terminates. For instance, the client will receive a successful response even if the handler throws an exception. Any errors that occurred while running the handler can be found in the Cloud Code log.

If you want to use `afterDelete` for a predefined class in the Parse JavaScript SDK (e.g. [Parse.User](/docs/js/api/symbols/Parse.User.html)), you should not pass a String for the first argument. Instead, you should pass the class itself.

## Resource Limits

### Timeouts

Cloud functions will be killed after 15 seconds of wall clock time. `beforeSave`, `afterSave`, `beforeDelete`, and `afterDelete` functions will be killed after 3 seconds of run time. If a Cloud function or a `beforeSave`/`afterSave`/`beforeDelete`/`afterDelete` function is called from another Cloud Code call, it will be further limited by the time left in the calling function. For example, if a `beforeSave` function is triggered by a cloud function after it has run for 13 seconds, the `beforeSave` function will only have 2 seconds to run, rather than the normal 3 seconds. If you need additional time to perform operations in Cloud Code, consider using a [background job](#cloud-code-advanced-background-jobs).

### Memory

Cloud Code invocations (such as functions, save/delete hooks, background jobs, and custom endpoint handlers) must use a finite amount of memory (currently 384 MB, but subject to change in the future). This memory is garbage collected by the JavaScript engine, so it is generally not an issue.

To allow the garbage collector to do its work properly, make sure that you aren't saving references to large objects, HTTP response buffers, and other objects to global variables in your script.

### Network requests

Network requests that are still in progress after `success` or `error` are called will be canceled. In general, you should wait for all network requests to finish before calling `success`. For `afterSave` functions and `afterDelete` functions, which don't call `success`/`error`, Cloud Code will wait for all network requests to finish.

Here's an example where calling `response.success` will cancel an outstanding query, leading to unexpected results:

```js
Parse.Cloud.define("ThisFunctionWillNotReturnAllDataAsExpected", function(request, response) {
  var results = "Retrieved all Posts:\n"
  var query = new Parse.Query("Post");

  // This query.find() is unlikely to finish before response.success() is called.
  query.find().then(function(posts) {
    for (var i = 0; i < posts.length; i++) {
      results += posts[i].get('title') + "\n";
    }  
  });

  response.success(results); // Response: "Retrieval all Posts:\n"
});
```

This is a common mistake that can be easily avoided. Make sure that you only call `success` once all of your network queries have returned data, such as in the following example:

```js
Parse.Cloud.define("ThisFunctionWillReturnAllData", function(request, response) {
  var results = "Retrieved all Posts:\n"
  var query = new Parse.Query("Post");

  query.find().then(function(posts) {
    for (var i = 0; i < posts.length; i++) {
      results += posts[i].get('title') + "\n";
    }

    // success has been moved inside the callback for query.find()
    response.success(results);
  }, function(error) {
    // Make sure to catch any errors, otherwise you may see a "success/error not called" error in Cloud Code.
    response.error("Could not retrieve Posts, error " + error.code + ": " + error.message);
  });

});
```

HTTP requests have a maximum timeout of 1 minute. This timeout can be further restricted by the maximum timeout for the type of Cloud Code being executed as decribed in the [timeouts](#cloud-code-timeouts) section. For instance, HTTP requests in Cloud Functions are limited to 15 seconds, HTTP requests in before/after save triggers are limited to 3 seconds, etc.

## Logging from Cloud Code

If you want to log a message to the log files displayed by `parse log`, you can use `console.log`, `console.error`, or `console.warn`. Both `console.error` and `console.warn` will write to the error log.

```js
Parse.Cloud.define("Logger", function(request, response) {
  console.log(request.params);
  response.success();
});
```

Cloud functions may log up to 100 messages per request. Log lines are limited to 1KB in size, after which they are truncated.
