# Hosting

Parse Hosting provides you with the tools to host static and dynamic websites. You can upload arbitraty static web content or create dynamic web apps, using the JavaScript SDK on the client side and Cloud Code plus Express on the server side. This allows you to create companion web apps for your native app, landing pages for your mobile app, or even host Unity Web Player binaries.

On the computer you use for development, you will need to install Parse's command line tool. This will let you manage your website in the Parse Cloud. You will need at least version 1.1.0 of the command line tool.

## Installing or Updating the Command Line Tool (Mac/Linux)

In Mac OS and Linux/Unix environments, you can get the parse tool by running this command:

```bash
curl -s https://www.parse.com/downloads/cloud_code/installer.sh | sudo /bin/bash
```

This installs a tool named "parse" to `/usr/local/bin/parse`. There's no other junk, so to uninstall, just delete that file. This will also update your command line tool if you already have it installed.

## Installing the Command Line Tool (Windows)

The Parse command line tool for Windows is available [here](/downloads/windows/console/parse.zip). After downloading the zip file and unzipping it, you can launch a parse-aware powershell session by double clicking ParseConsole.exe. After the first run of the ParseConsole, you can also start the powershell session by hitting Win + R and typing "parse".

## Creating Your Project Directory

The next step is to create a directory to store the website that you will run in the cloud. The command `parse new` sets up this directory, and will prompt you to pick which app you are creating Hosting for:

```bash
$ parse new MyWebsite
Email: ninja@gmail.com
Password:
1:MyApp
Select an App: 1
$ cd MyWebsite
```

Use the email address and password for your Parse account to log in. If you signed up via OAuth and never set a password, you should now set one by editing your account settings. This will create a directory called `MyWebsite` in the current directory. Several files are automatically created for you:

```bash
-config/
  global.json
-cloud/
  main.js
-public/
  index.html
``` 

The `config` directory contains a JSON configuration file that you shouldn't normally need to deal with, the `cloud` directory contains dynamic website code, and the `public` directory stores any static content that you want to host on Parse. For now, just check that these files were created successfully. If you're using source control, you can check all of these files in.

## A Simple Website

Hosting static content using Parse is easy. Everything in the `public` directory will be hosted at `your-custom-subdomain.parseapp.com`. This directory sits alongside the `cloud` and `config` directories.

To deploy a Hello World website, simply do:

```bash
$ echo "Hello World" > public/index.html
$ parse deploy
```

To access the website you've deployed you need to set up a subdomain.

### Choosing a Subdomain Name

To access your hosted content, you will first need to select a ParseApp subdomain. You can set your subdomain in the "Web Hosting" section of your app's settings. There will be a field for you to enter a ParseApp name. The subdomain name is case-insensitive, and unlike your app name, it must be unique across the entire Parse system. It may consist of 3 to 20 alphanumeric characters and dashes, and may not start or end with a dash. When you select a unique subdomain name, a checkmark is displayed to indicate that is is not yet taken.

Let's say you chose `at-the-movies` as the subdomain name for your website, you can now access it at the root URL `at-the-movies.parseapp.com`. If you upload another hosted file from `public/images/background.png`, then it can be accessed by pointing your browser at `at-the-movies.parseapp.com/images/background.png`.

### Uploading Constraints

There are a few constraints for hosted files:

*   Files are limited to 500 megabytes.
*   You cannot upload more than 500 hosted files.
*   Filenames should begin with an alphanumeric character and consist only of alphanumeric characters, dashes, underscores, spaces, and '@' signs.
*   The command line tool will automatically skip emacs and vim autosave files.

You are free to upload hosted content of any type you want. Parse will infer the content type from each file's extension.

## Custom Domain Names

Users can also host content at a custom domain name. If you have chosen the ParseApp name `at-the-movies` and want to host your content at `www.example.com`, it requires three steps:

1.  Demonstrate that you control the DNS entries for `www.example.com`. You can do this by adding a CNAME to `at-the-movies.parseapp.com` from either `www.example.com` or `[your_host_name_key].www.example.com`. Your host name key is a 12-character string that you can find in the "Web Hosting" section in your app's settings. It can take anywhere from 15 minutes to several hours for a new DNS entry to be propagated, and the next step cannot be completed until this happens. If you are currently hosting a website at `www.example.com`, you will probably want to use the host name key method, otherwise your website might experience downtime for users who see the new DNS entry before you complete the next step.
2.  After your new DNS entry been propagated, you can set your host name to `www.example.com` in your app's hosting settings. If the first step was successful, a checkmark should show up. Otherwise, an error message will tell you what went wrong.
3.  If you verified ownership via the host name key, you will still need to add a CNAME from `www.example.com` to `at-the-movies.parseapp.com` to begin sending traffic to your hosted app.

After completing these steps, `www.example.com` will serve the same content as `at-the-movies.parseapp.com`.

If you want to serve content at an apex domain like `example.com` then you might have trouble with the steps above, because root domains generally don't support CNAME records. To support this situation, Parse offers a service which will redirect traffic from root domains like `example.com` to the `www.example.com` subdomain. To use this service, complete the steps above using a www-prefixed domain like `www.example.com`, and then create `A` records from `example.com` to one or both of the following IP addresses:

*   `54.85.233.145`
*   `54.85.226.190`

`A` records can be created in the settings page of your domain name service provider. After creating these `A` records, requests to `example.com` will result in a 301 (permanent) redirect to `www.example.com` while preserving the request path.

If you visit your hosted site over HTTPS using your custom domain, you might see a warning that the website is serving content using an SSL certificate belonging to `*.parseapp.com`. If you have a SSL certificate belonging to your custom domain, you can fix these warnings by uploading the public certificate file  and the private key file on the "Web Hosting" section in your app's settings.   If your domain's public certificate requires intermediate certificates, then you should append your public certificate, intermediate certificates, and the root certificate into a single file (in that order), and upload it as the "SSL Public Certificate" in your app settings.  In 10-30 minutes,  your certificate will be propagated to the Parse hosting servers and served  to users who visit your hosted site over HTTPS.<p>

## Dynamic Websites

You can use Cloud Code and Express to build multi-page dynamic web apps. With the [Express](http://expressjs.com/) framework, you have many powerful tools at your fingertips, such as request routing, cookie handling, and template rendering. With [Cloud Code](/docs/cloud_code_guide), you have access to functionality such as interacting with Parse data and [sending HTTP requests](/docs/cloud_code_guide#networking).

With Parse, you have a choice of building either a multi-page web app with Express, or a single-page Backbone app with the Parse JavaScript SDK  on the client side.  The Express approach has the advantage that your website  can be crawled by search engines, while the client-side Backbone approach may  result in more responsive apps.  You can find details about Express and Cloud Code in our [Express API docs](/docs/js/api/symbols/express.html).

Express can help you get your app up and running quickly, but if you  prefer a lower-level [Node.js](http://nodejs.org/)-like  HTTP interface, we have that too.  For more details, please see our [HTTP interface API docs](/docs/js/api/symbols/http.html). If you choose to use Express or Node.js, you'll first need to delete `public/index.html` so that requests can get through to your custom handler functions.

In this guide, we'll focus on building web apps with the Express API.

### Creating a Web App

After you get Parse Hosting [set up](#started-project), you can generate a starter web app by typing the following inside your parse project folder.

```bash
$ parse generate express
```

This command creates the following directory structure inside your cloud folder. It will not touch your existing main.js file.

```bash
-cloud/
  app.js
  -views/
    hello.ejs
  main.js (not touched)
```

Next, you need to add the following line at the top of your `main.js`. This makes sure that the code in `app.js` is loaded.

```js
require('cloud/app.js');
```

Then, run `parse deploy` to deploy your web app. After deploying, you should find your web app at `your-custom-subdomain.parseapp.com/hello`. We'll next go over this sample app in detail.

### Sample Web App

Let's go over the starter web app to get an idea what Express can do for us.  If you haven't created the starter app yet, you can create one using [these instructions](#webapp-started).

The top-level entry point for an Express app is `app.js`, where the app is initialized, and the request paths are hooked up to corresponding logic through the Express routing API.  You must require this file from `main.js` because Cloud Code starts at `main.js` when it loads your JavaScript. We recommend that you put your Cloud Functions in `main.js`, and put all Express-related code in `app.js`.

In your sample app, `app.js` should look like this:

```js
// These two lines are required to initialize Express.
var express = require('express');
var app = express();

// Global app configuration section
app.set('views', 'cloud/views');  // Specify the folder to find templates
app.set('view engine', 'ejs');    // Set the template engine
app.use(express.bodyParser());    // Middleware for reading request body

// This is an example of hooking up a request handler with a specific request
// path and HTTP verb using the Express routing API.
app.get('/hello', function(req, res) {
  res.render('hello', { message: 'Congrats, you just set up your app!' });
});

// This line is required to make Express respond to http requests.
app.listen();
```

In the global app configuration section at the top, we specify some app settings and initialize the Express middleware.  App settings include specifying a templating engine for rendering your web pages, and where to find your template source files.  Express middleware are optional components that preprocess the incoming request.  The middleware specified in this section apply to all request paths.

The sample app also has a `cloud/views` folder, containing an EJS template file (`hello.ejs`). In this template, the `message` variable will be replaced by the value specified in the `res.render()` line in `app.js`.

### Handling Requests

Let's look at a simple request handler that reads the request text, and responds with a message including the request text.

```js
app.post('/echo', function(req, res) {
  res.set('Content-Type', 'text/plain');
  res.send('echoing: ' + req.body.message);
});
```

Every request handler starts with `app.VERB`, where the `VERB` could be any of the standard HTTP verbs, such as `get`, `post`, `put`, or `delete`. This tells Express what type of HTTP request this handler should respond to.

Next, the `'/echo'` parameter specifies what url path (also known as route) that this request handler should respond to.  Then, we specify a function that takes in a request and response object to perform the request handling logic. As long as we include the `express.bodyParser` middleware, the `req.body` should be populated with input data. For example, if the raw request body is `{ "message": "hi" }`, then `req.body.message` above will have the value `'hi'`.  Finally, the [`res.send()`](/docs/js/api/symbols/express.Response.html#send) tells Express to populate the response object with the specified string.

### Express Middleware

Middleware are modules that process the request before it reaches your request handler.  These components convert a raw HTTP request into a request object that you can easily work with in your request handler. Cloud Code supports the following Express-provided middleware:

*   [`express.basicAuth()`](/docs/js/api/symbols/express.html#.basicAuth) - Allows you to set up HTTP basic authentication for your website.
*   [`express.bodyParser()`](/docs/js/api/symbols/express.html#.bodyParser) - Converts the HTTP request body (JSON or www-form-encoded) into the `request.body` object.
*   [`express.methodOverride()`](/docs/js/api/symbols/express.html#.methodOverride) - A standard web form only supports HTTP post.  This middleware lets the web form issue put/delete HTTP requests to Express.  This is especially useful when you want to closely follow REST-ful principles.
*   [`express.cookieParser()`](/docs/js/api/symbols/express.html#.cookieParser) - Reads the request cookie sent by the browser, and puts that into the `request.cookies` and `express.request.signedCookies` objects.
*   [`express.cookieSession()`](/docs/js/api/symbols/express.html#.cookieSession) - Allows you to store session data in a signed cookie by setting the `request.session` object
*   [`express.csrf()`](/docs/js/api/symbols/express.html#.csrf) - Protects against cross-site request forgery.

In addition, we've provided the following custom middleware:

*   [`parseExpressRawBody()`](/docs/js/api/symbols/parseExpressRawBody.html) - Allows you to access the raw request body as a [`Buffer`](/docs/js/api/symbols/Buffer.html) object at `req.body`.  This is useful if you want to directly access bytes in the request, or if you want to read the request body as other data formats (e.g. XML) using your own parser in the request handler.

You can add middleware to your app with [`app.use()`](/docs/js/api/symbols/express.Application.html#use).  The standard Express middleware are functions, so make sure you call them accordingly (e.g. `app.use(express.csrf()`). You should add your app's middleware before registering any request handlers with `app.VERB()`.

Please follow the above order when configuring Express middleware in the global app configuration section.  You may leave out any middleware that you don't need.  The order is important because later middleware may depend on the data created by earlier ones.

### Rendering Templates

Templates are a great way to dynamically generate web content, and reduce code duplication.  Cloud Code provides modules for the EJS and Jade template engines.

You specify the template engine in the global app configuration section with `app.set('view engine', ENGINE_NAME)`, where `ENGINE_NAME` can be either `'ejs'` or `'jade'`. The template file in the `cloud/views` folder should have an extension matching `ENGINE_NAME`. The sample app's template looks like this in EJS (`hello.ejs`) or Jade (`hello.jade`):

```html
// Using EJS syntax
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <title>Sample App</title>
  </head>
  <body>

# Hello World

<%%= message %>

  </body>
</html>
```

```html
// Using Jade syntax
doctype 5
html
  head
    title Sample App
  body
    h1 Hello World
    p= message
```

You can find more information about the syntax for each template engine at the homepages for [EJS](https://github.com/visionmedia/ejs) and [Jade](https://github.com/visionmedia/jade).

You render templates by calling [`res.render()`](/docs/js/api/symbols/express.Response.html#render). The first argument is the template file name. If it does not have a file extension, Express will look for the file with the extension matching your app's template engine setting. The second argument is a JSON object that contains all the variables in the template and their corresponding values.  Each variable in the template serves as a placeholder, and is replaced by its actual value when you render the template.

### Getting User Input

Getting user input is easy with Express in Cloud Code.  You can create a form element in a template to allow the user to type some text, and then add a request handler for the request issued by submitting the form.

Let's add a simple form to our sample app template.  Please replace `hello.ejs` or `hello.jade` with the following code:

```html
// Using EJS syntax
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <title>Sample App</title>
  </head>
  <body>

# Hello World

    <p><%%= message %>

    <form method="post" action="/hello">

        <input name="message"></input>
        <input class="button" type="submit" value="Update Greeting">

    </form>
  </body>
</html>
```
```html
// Using Jade syntax
doctype 5
html
  head
    title Sample App
  body
    h1 Hello World
    p= message
    form(method="post", action="/hello")
      p
        input(type="text", name="message")
        input(type="submit", name="submit", value="Update Greeting")
```

Then, we need to add a request handler for the HTTP post request in `app.js`.

```js
app.post('/hello', function(req, res) {
  res.render('hello', { message: req.body.message });
});
```

Suppose the user types "hi" into the text box, and then clicks the "Update Greeting" button.  The form will send an HTTP post request to the url `http://example.parseapp.com/hello`, with the request body `message=hi`.  The  `express.bodyParser` middleware will read the request  body and set `req.body.message` to `'hi'`.   The request then triggers the above request handler because the HTTP verb  and url path both match.  Finally, the request handler renders the `hello.ejs` template by inserting `'hi'` into the placeholder for the `message` variable.

### User Session Management

You can add [`Parse.User`](/docs/js_guide#users) authentication and session management to your Express app using the `parseExpressCookieSession` middleware. You just need to call `Parse.User.logIn()` in Cloud Code, and this middleware will automatically manage the user session for you.

You can use a web form to ask for the user's login credentials, and log in the user in Cloud Code when you receive data from this form.  After you call `Parse.User.logIn()`, this middleware will automatically set a cookie in the user's browser.  During subsequent HTTP  requests from the same browser, this middleware will use this cookie to automatically set the  [current user](/docs/js_guide#users-current) in Cloud Code. This will make [ACLs](/docs/js_guide#users-acls) work properly in Cloud Code,  and allow you to retrieve the entire current user object if needed.  Finally, when you  log out a user in Cloud Code by calling `Parse.User.logOut()`, this middleware will  automatically remove the browser cookie.  For sample app code, please see the  [documentation](/docs/js/api/symbols/parseExpressCookieSession.html) for this middleware.

When you work with user data, you should use HTTPS whenever possible.  To protect your app and your users, the `parseExpressCookieSession` middleware requires  you to use HTTPS.  For your convenience, we also provide a `parseExpressHttpsRedirect`  middleware for redirecting all HTTP requests to HTTPS.  Please see its  [documentation](/docs/js/api/symbols/parseExpressHttpsRedirect.html) for details.

### Static Content

Your Express app can sit side-by-side with any static content you deployed from your `public` folder.  When a request goes to a URL of your subdomain, Parse will first look for a matching file in the `public` directory.  If there is no match, then Parse will invoke any Express request handlers that you have registered in Cloud Code.  If there is still no match, Parse will render a "404 Not Found" page.

If you are using Express with static content, we recommend the following directory structure for your project.

```bash
-cloud/
  main.js            Cloud Code functions, require cloud/app.js here
  app.js             Express app configuration and request handling logic
  -views/            View template files that Express needs to render
    hello.ejs
-public/
  example.html       Static HTML files
  favicon.ico        Your favicon logo
  -stylesheets/      CSS stylesheets
    style.css
```

## Logging

If you want to log a message to the log files displayed by `parse log`, you can use `console.log`, `console.error`, or `console.warn`.  Both `console.error` and `console.warn` will write to the error log.

```js
app.post('/hello', function(req, res) {
  console.log("New message: " + req.body.message);
  res.render('hello', { message: req.body.message });
});
```

## Development vs Production

You can use your development app to try out new code, and the production app to run your app that you distribute to the public.

### Adding a New App to a Project

You will need to have multiple apps linked to your project.  `parse new` will link the first app to the project.  You can add more apps by running `parse add [alias]`, like so:

```bash
$ parse add production
Email: pirate@gmail.com
Password:
1:PiecesOfEightCounterProd
2:PiecesOfEightCounterDev
Select an App: 1
```

The example above links the `PiecesOfEightCounterProd` app to your project. It also creates an alias to new app called `production` that provides a shorthand way to reference the app.

### Developing your Website

While developing new code, you can use the `develop` command to have the Parse command line tool continuously check for updates to your project and upload your changes.  The command looks like: 

```bash
$ parse develop development
E2013-11-21T01:05:56.257Z] Deploy failed with error:Error: Uncaught SyntaxError: Unexpected token ; in app.js:30
    at main.js:1:1
I2013-11-21T01:06:21.504Z] Deployed v172 with triggers:
  Cloud Functions:
    hello
```

Note that for the `develop` command you need to be explicit about the app that you are going to push new changes to.  This avoids accidentally running `develop` on your production app, potentially deploying untested code to it.  The command line tool will upload code changes and display new log messages, until you hit Ctrl-C.

### Deploying Code to Production

After you are done testing and updating your code, you can deploy the code to production by passing the production app to the the `deploy` command, like so:

```bash
$ parse deploy production
New release is named v2
```
